# High Level Design for Projects

## Overview

This can be taken from the requirements and modified as necessary. For a design document you can assume the reader has a technical background. For your projects assume a background of a class member.

## Environment

List any requirements (operating system, database products, execution environment (Java, Perl, etc.).

## Module Descriptions and Data Flow

Include a diagram showing the modules and data flow between them. Give a high level description of the function of each module. A pseudocode format is often used:

```
Open grades file
While grades for student in file {
  If valid grade (0-100)
    Add grade to student total
  else  {
    Report error to user screen
    Create error report for history
  } 
}
```

Describe the data going into and out of the modules, using structures as necessary.

## User Screens

Include user screens with description of function and use.

## User Scenarios (Use Cases)

Include the typical steps a user would do for major functions:

1.    When the user starts the program the first screen appears shown above as “Main Menu” appears
2.    When the user selects option “Enter grades” the “Enter Grades” screen appears
3.    The user can enter grades by …. When finished the user …. 
4.    The report shown above as “Grade Report” is generated by ……

## Design Considerations

List any considerations that affected your design, for example functions you considered but cannot do because of time or system limitations, design decisions made because of customer requirements, etc.

## Sizing Estimate

Size estimates of modules, either lines of code, story points, or function points (see the Software Process and Project metrics slides). Note: Its accuracy will not affect your grade

## Documentation specific to your project

This is an outline of a generic project. Modify it to suite yours. The design document is used by the project members to complete the project and for technically competent readers to understand what you are doing.

## The Formal Development Environment (for reference)

In a formal project development environment, the design document is approved by the project manager and technical leaders responsible for development.

The design document can be changed if necessary during product development. However there usually is a procedure to do this (with appropriate approvals needed). When a design change is being considered, affected groups have to be notified and may have to approve. For example, if a design change affects the requirements approved by the customer, customer approval is necessary.

It is also recommended that testing groups participate and approve the design. Testing groups like the integration and system groups use the design document to create test cases.

For your projects, the customer does not have to approve the design document. However, anything in it that affects the customer (platform, user screens, etc.) must be approved.
