---
layout: post
tags: meetings
title: Meeting Log - Mar. 31
---

This meeting was a major milestone. We were all able to complete our sections of code enough to integrate them together and see how it worked with the engraver. There were a few changes that needed to be made to the code initially to integrate sucessfully, mostly in adding Patrick's and Lucian's parts together, but it didn't take much. Once it was all together, however, it surprisingly worked on the first try with the engraver. We were able to run the engraver through an image with just our code wrote in C. The engraver clearly moved and was trying to engrave based on the images we gave it, but it was not actually engraving. It went through the motions and was clearly trying to engrave but there would only be the faintest of patterns when finished. 

We troubleshooted several different possibilities: we were sending messages too quickly, we needed to send an initialization command that we forgot, we weren't waiting on the engraver's response after the initial header instructions, and the packets we were sending had too many bytes at once. We added the initialization command, a sleep between instructions that forced the instructions to slow down and only send in 7 byte packets instead of 32, and added a read instruction after the header to wait on the engraver. These changes made no difference on the outcome though. Since the engraver is carving something and we are pretty sure the messages are slow enough we believe that the laser intensity setting or dwell time has been lowered at some point, so our next meeting will look at troubleshooting by changing these settings.
