---
layout: post
tags: meetings
title: Meeting Log - Apr. 03
---

We met to continue troubleshooting why the engraver wasn't engraving very dark. We started by adjusting the laser intensity and it seemed to help, but it still didn't quite print as expected. We looked into the instructions we were sending the engraver a bit more and noticed we were not sending all of the instructions that we should have been. This explained the gaps in the X shape we trying to engrave. Lucian almost immediately knew what this was and fixed it quickly. Once that was fixed we had a better X shape, but it was still very faint. After comparing our instructions to the engraver with HTPOW's it was easy to see that they were sending more instructions than our code. It turns out that the HTPOW software adds in more pixels to skinny lines so they print darker. Sort of like anti-aliasing. We were able to mimic this by adding a slight blur effect to the image in our code. 

With the blur and the fix to the instructions being sent our X came out much better. It was still a little off though. Grant tried adding in some code to center the image, and after doing that the X shape engraved very strangley. After double checking Grant's code we determined that we should not being getting what we were seeing. We tried engraving another image, a stick man. The stick man engraved very strangley with and without the centering code, so we knew had a problem that wasn't just the centering adjustment. After a lot of thought and deliberation we ran the stick man through HTPOW's software and we were able to discover that the least significant bits of the hex numbers for the X and Y coordinates did not use the full range of hex. After reaching 64 in hex, 100 in decimal, the next significant bit would increment and the least 2 would roll over to 00 again. By the time we discovered this it was late, so we decided to fix the code and try again on Wednesday.
