---
layout: post
tags: meetings
title: Meeting Log - May 02
---

We met on Tuesday to finish up the final report and our testing to get ready for the handover to Dr. Dietz on Wednesday. The report is mostly done and the testing is completely done except for some that Grant still needed to finish.

One very unfortunate discovery was that Lucian somehow lost the GitHub branch that contained all of the code he had been working on to implement greyscale engraving.

We were able to confirm however that the SuperCarver software does do anti-aliasing for greyscale, and almost without a doubt uses a blur tool similar to how we solved the problem of thin diagonal lines. This can be seen easily by examining the communication capture between the software and engraver when we engraved the X shape using greyscale. This file can be found in our htpewpew repository in reverseEngineering/aliasing_tests/gray_x.txt.parse. From looking at the first few pixels it can be seen that the intensity (second to last byte, higher is darker) is the highest, or FF, for the original pixels in the image, but are less for the added pixels around them. The added pixels have an intensity of around 3a-3d a significant lightening which is similar to the phenomenon we were having problems with in greyscale as well using the blur tool. Although we probably will not be able to do anything with this information in the limited time we have left, it should be noted for future work. 

In the same folder with the gray_x.txt.parse are other communication captures for a few other images specially made to investigate how the SuperCarver software does its anit-aliasing. The images themselves are located one folder up and are 3 images that begin with "45 degree lines separated by ..." The examination of them has been brief, but it could suggest something more sophisticated than a blur tool. It is higly recommended to look into these images and their communication captures if a better anti-aliasing method is desired.
